So, back in the cx.go,
when you're doing the http.get,
I guess I'm used to structures
where you have to then do,
like, a .then or
do an await kind of thing.
So is that already built in, that it's
waiting until it gets something back?
>> So
you're used to async operations using
solutions such as promises, or callbacks.
Well, you don't have that here.
So here this is a synchronous operation,
not an asynchronous operation.
So actually what happens here is
that when you call get, within get,
we can even drill down within
the structure and find the code,
there will be a while, a for, actually,
a for, waiting for the network to finish.
And then it's giving
you back the execution.
So, this is not an async operation,
actually it's a sync operation, okay?
So it's not async it's sync.
So this is a synchronous operation.
Do we have asynchronous operations in Go?
Typically no, you use Goroutines for
doing that to avoid blocking the thread.
Because, yeah, what happens now for
example if I, let's say to avoid copy and
pasting, let's move this into
another function that is going to
be getCurrencyData that will receive
the currency code, and it will do this.
And instead of ("BTC"),
I'm going to say currency.
So I just refactor this
into the other order,
currency string, not string currency.
No, this is not Java or C-sharp.
And from here, then I'm going to call
getCurrencyData of ("BTC"), okay?
It's the same code, just with a function.
But I did this because now I can
call another one for Ethereum or
Ether, that's the actual
name of the currency.
Or I can get another one for
Bitcoin Cash or
I can add Bitcoin Cash that
it should be BCH, I think.
That's the name of Bitcoin Cash,
it's another version of Bitcoin.
So okay.
So if I run this, let me clear first.
It goes one by one, okay?
And in the same order.
It was pretty fast, okay?
But that depends on the case.
It depends on the network,
on the traffic at that moment, okay?
They are synchronous.
So one needs to wait for the other one.
So how to do something different?
Well, do you remember how to convert
these function calls into Goroutines?
Go prefix, just add go, go, go.
Now, each call will be
executed in its own Goroutine,
let's say its own thread, so
they're not blocking the thread.
But if I execute this now,
what will happen?
Nothing, actually, there are other things
happening, but I'm not seeing the results.
Do you remember why?
>> Because main shut down before
those other ones got done.
>> Exactly,
the main function ends immediately and
when the main function ends
actually the whole process ends, so
the main Goroutine ends and
the process with all the Goroutines ends.
So actually these are actually firing like
new threads, I need to wait for them.
So the simplest and easiest and
laziest way to solve the problem
right now is to call time sleep, and
let's sleep for a lot of nanosecond,
remember, this is nanoseconds.
Instead of doing that,
we can just say, let's wait for
a minute or maybe a couple of seconds.
We multiply that by 5,
so we wait 5 seconds.
So at least for 5 seconds,
now each call will go and
wait and
that that a hey I guess is because
now you realize that it's
in a different order.
So I've got the results for
Ethereum that Bitcoin cash and
that because say, it's a reverse order.
No, that was just luck probably.
If I try again,
you can see it's not the same.
Every time I will get a different
order because in the order,
the responses are coming back.
And there is a little bit of traffic,
random things going on there.
But now we can see that we are opening
throwing, opening different threads, and
each thread will work separately.
We have now Goroutines going and
grabbing different currency rates,
but we have this hacky sleep here
that doesn't seem like a good idea.
So we need to find a way
to actually wait for
these Goroutines to finish.
And that's that will solve the problems
that we have sometimes with channels,
the channels will get into a deadlock.
So we actually need to be sure
that this is working properly.
So warning, the code that I'm going to
write is not going to be difficult, but
it's also will look a little hacky, okay?
So it will take some time to
get used to how that works.
So first for that we are going to
create something known as a sync group.
So we are going to create a variable.
And typically we're going to create,
we call that wg, waiting group.
So it's kind of a value that will wait for
Goroutines to finish.
That's kind of the idea.
Instead of doing this,
like calling getCurrencyData
like this, I will move this to a slice.
Or an array, this is just the same.
So I'm going to say that,
let's say currencies is a new variable.
And I can say something like this,
it's on a of a string,
that we have "BTC", "ETH" and "BCH",
you can add more if you want.
Of course, they need to be supported by,
That provider,
and then I'm going to make a for.
So I will say for each currency
on the range of the currencies.
That's how you do it for each.
If you don't need
the index use underscore,
and here we are going to go,
go getCurrency of currencies, like that.
Currency, there we go.
So, we're still not using that waitGroup,
or
we don't understand yet
how it works, but we will get there.
So the idea is that the waitGroup,
It's a value.
It's kind of a counter actually.
So we're going to count, it's a counter,
we are adding to that counter, and
we are subtracting to the counter.
And at any time we can ask
that waiting group to wait.
Wait for
the counter to get back to 0, okay?
And it will synchronously
wait until it gets to 0.
So it is like asleep, but
not with a fixed time.
It will be fixed to that particular
moment, okay, when the counter goes to 0.
So what's the point?
I should talk to my working group and
I will add 1 to that
counter every time we
are opening a new Goroutine.
So we are opening new routine and
we say, 1, okay?
Make sense?
And what I need to do at
one point is to subtract,
careful, I'm going to refactor
the code while I'm explaining.
So just have that in mind.
So I should do some feel like done,
done will actually subtract 1,
it's saying, okay, I'm done with 1?
Do you need to know which one is done, no.
So this is counting 1, and
done is subtracting 1, and
then the wait we wait for
getting to 0, okay?
Make sense?
Do you understand the idea?
So every time we open a Goroutine,
we say 1, add 1,
and every time that Goroutine ends,
we should call done.
Make sense?
However, that's not what's actually
happening there in my code, why?
Because line 17, in fact,
let me add a print here just for
us to think about this.
So I'm going to print here.
Let's say, and I'm going to print here.
Let's say.
T, so if you execute main,
Which letter will be executed first?
T or O?
>> T.
>> T or O?
T, we have a T.
>> O.
>> Okay, we have a O.
>> [LAUGH]
>> I see many of you are thinking so
what's going on?
>> Online somebody said T.
>> I think it'd be T.
>> I think it-
>> Why T?
>> Cuz Go will take a certain
amount of time to happen.
>> Yeah, so
the thing is that maybe I mean,
the right answer is that we're not sure.
But it's definitely not O for
sure or not T for sure.
Definitely not O for sure.
So what's going on here is when we have a
Go call, we are creating a new Goroutine.
So basically,
the O will be executed in a new Goroutine.
And immediately,
the main Goroutine will go to line 17 and
it will print immediately T, which means,
forget about the T and the O.
But wg.done will be executed immediately
after launching the Goroutine.
It's not waiting for the Goroutine to end,
because line17 is executing
in the main Goroutine.
So everything that you see here
it's the main Goroutine, and
because I'm calling getCurrency
data only with a Go,
everything that is here
it's in a new Goroutine.
So we don't see that in the source code
you're suddenly choosing to think about
this visually, okay?
That because we are executing
getCurrencyData with a Go prefix,
that means that we are always
using a Goroutine.
So line 18,
it's actually going to be executed
immediately after 17 without waiting for.
So that done should be here somehow.
I'm refactoring this, so don't do it yet.
But the idea is that, okay?
The problem is that, yeah,
wg does not exist in the context
of the getCurrency data.
I could create the package variable and
then use that, it's okay.
But still, it's kind of not well written.
I mean, it will work, but
it's not well written because, I mean,
getCurrencyData shouldn't
care about a waiting group.
So what's a waiting group for
getCurrency data?
It's not its responsibility
to something around waiting.
I don't care, my responsibility is
to get a string and get the data and
print the response.
That's all I need to do.
So that's why this is
not completely right.
So we need to find a solution
on how we can do this.
So I'm going to refactor, and
this is going to look a little hacky.
But let's see if we can
understand what going on.